VALIDATION ATTRIBUTES OF FORM 

placeholder : this attribute holds the value which appears as false text or faint text in input box 

required : Makes a field mandatory. The form cannot be submitted if this field is empty. and it is without value attribute

minlength : Sets the minimum number of characters allowed. 

maxlength : Sets the maximum number of characters allowed.

max :  Sets the maximum value for number or date inputs.

min :  Sets the minimum value for number or date inputs.

pattern : Defines a regular expression pattern that input must match. syntax : pattern="[A-Za-z0-9@#$]{length in numbers}"

disabled : User can see the value but cannot change it. Disables the input field completely.and it is without value attribute

size : defines the size for specific input feild 

checked : By default the checkbox will get selected without even selecting it. and it is without value attribute


step : The step attribute defines the allowed interval between valid values for an input.
It is mainly used with number, range, date, time, etc.

accept : The accept attribute specifies what types of files a user is allowed to select when using:
<input type="file">
Syntax
<input type="file" accept=".jpg,.png">
This allows the user to select JPG and PNG files.

autofocus : The autofocus attribute automatically places the cursor/focus on an input when the page loads.

Why Validation Attributes Are Important?

✔ Improve data accuracy
✔ Prevent wrong form submission
✔ Reduce JavaScript validation code
✔ Improve user experience


Semantic Tags (Elements): 

Semantic tags : semantic tags are the one who provides or explicitly tells the purpose of using the tags 
because using div and span tag will not allow us exact meaning of it by its name 

Features : 
Clearly define the role and content of elements.
Improve code readability and structure.
Help browsers and search engines understand page content.

there are few semantic tags such as :

1. The <article> Tag
The <article> tag is used for content that stands alone and can be independently distributed or reused, such as a blog post or news article.

2. The <aside> Tag
The <aside> is used to place content in a sidebar i.e. aside from the existing content. It is related to surrounding content. 

3. The Details and Summary Tag
The "details" defines additional details that the user can hide or view. "summary" defines a visible heading for a "details" element.

4. The Header Tag
As the name suggests, it is for the header of a section introductory of a page. There can be multiple headers on a page. 

5. The Footer Tag
Footer located at the bottom of any article or document, they can contain contact details, copyright information etc. There can be multiple footers on a page. 

6. The Main Tag
It defines the main content of the document. The content inside the main tag should be unique. 

7. the table tag : this tag is used to define or create the table structure of html 

8. The Section Tag
A page can be split into sections like Introduction, Contact Information, Details, etc and each of these sections can be in a different section tag.

9. The nav Tag
The nav tag is used to define a set of navigation links in the form of a navigation bar or nav menu.

10. form tag
This tag is used to define or create form to accepts user inputs 

To remember all semantic tags 
HDAMNSTAFF - header , details , aside , main , nav , section , table , article , footer , form 
